(a) Purpose and intent. Thisdistrict is intended to preserve, encourage and protect the County'sfarms and forestry operations and their economic productivity andto ensure that agricultural and forestry enterprises will continueto have the necessary flexibility to adjust their production as economicconditions change. Furthermore, it is the intent that in this districtthere shall be no basis, under this Title, for recourse against theeffects of any normal farming or forestry operation as permitted inthis district, including but not limited to noise, odor, vibration,fumes, dust or glare. This district is also intended to protect theland base resources for the County's agricultural and forestry industriesfrom the disruptive effects of major subdivision or nonagriculturalcommercialization.
(b) Permitted principal uses and structures. The following uses and structures shall be permitted in the A-1
District:
(1) Agriculture, including feeding lots, dairy barns,stables, agricultural lagoons, hog houses, and noncommercial graindryers. No lot requirements shall apply for field, vegetable and nurserycrops and grazing pastures. For other activities and principal structures,minimum lot requirements shall be: lot area, five acres; lot width,two hundred feet; front yard setback, thirty-five feet [see § ZS
1-305(b) hereof]; each side yard setback, twenty feet; and rear yardsetback, twenty feet. See § ZS 1-305(r) hereof.[Amended 4-25-2017 by
Bill No. 17-3]
(2) Poultry operations subject to the provisions of
§ ZS 1-349 hereof.[Amended 4-25-2017 by Bill No.
17-3[1]]
[1]
Editor's Note: This bill also redesignated former Subsection
(b)(2) through (17) as Subsection (b)(3) through (18).
(3) Aquaculture. Minimum lot requirements shall applyfor structures only and shall be: lot area, five acres; lot width,two hundred feet; front yard setback, thirty-five feet [see § ZS 1-305(b)
hereof]; each side yard setback, twenty feet; and rear yard setback,twenty feet; and subject to the provisions of § ZS 1-325
hereof.
(4) Roadside stands offering for sale fresh agriculturalproducts, fresh seafood and processed dairy products from locallyraised livestock, operated by the property owner or tenant of thepremises upon which such stand is located. Processed agriculturaland seafood products may also be sold, provided such sales are incidentalto the sales of fresh products. Minimum lot requirements shall be:
lot area, forty thousand square feet; lot width, two hundred feet;
front yard setback, thirty-five feet [see § ZS 1-305(b)
hereof]; each side yard setback, thirty feet; and rear yard setback,thirty feet; and subject to the provisions of §§ ZS 1-325
and 1-322 hereof. Signs shall be subject to the provisions of § ZS 1-324
hereof.
(5) Single-family dwellings. Minimum lot requirementsshall be: lot area, forty thousand square feet; lot width, two hundredfeet; front yard setback, thirty-five feet [see § ZS 1-305(b)
hereof]; each side yard setback, twenty feet; and rear yard setback,fifty feet. See § ZS 1-305(r) hereof.
(6) Manufactured homes in accordance with § ZS 1-314(a)
hereof. Minimum lot requirements shall be: lot area, forty thousandsquare feet; lot width, two hundred feet; front yard setback, thirty-fivefeet [see § ZS 1-305(b) hereof]; each side yard setback,twenty feet; and rear yard setback, fifty feet. See § ZS 1-305(r)
hereof.
(7) Minor subdivisions in accordance with the provisionsof § ZS 1-311 hereof.
(8) Rural cluster subdivisions in accordance with theprovisions of § ZS 1-308 hereof.
(9) Divisions of land for agricultural purposes inaccordance with the provisions of § ZS 1-311(b)(4).
(10) Public and private conservation areas, includingwildlife reservations, arboretums and demonstration forests. Minimumlot requirements shall apply for buildings only and shall be: lotarea, forty thousand square feet; lot width, two hundred feet; frontyard setback, thirty-five feet [see § ZS 1-305(b) hereof];
each side yard setback, twenty feet; and rear yard setback, twentyfeet.
(11) Private noncommercial cabins, tents, recreationalvehicles or manufactured or mobile homes for seasonal and not permanentor year-round occupancy. Minimum lot requirements shall be: lot area,five acres; lot area per cabin, tent, recreational vehicle or manufacturedor mobile home, five acres, limited to not more than five such units;
lot width, four hundred feet; front yard setback, one hundred feet
[see § ZS 1-305(b) hereof]; each side yard setback,one hundred feet; and rear yard setback, one hundred feet. Such structuresneed not be located on a lot which abuts upon a road but are subjectto Department of the Environment approval.
(12) Fishing, trapping, hunting, hunting blinds andwildlife observation structures. No lot requirements shall apply.
(13) Landing strips in accordance with the provisions of § ZS 1-345(a), Subsection (2) of the definition of "airfield," hereof.
(14) The addition to existing structures of telecommunicationsfacilities that do not increase the overall height of the existingstructure, subject to the provisions of § ZS 1-343
hereof.
(15) Monopoles and freestanding towers up to one hundredfifty feet in height, subject to the provisions of § ZS 1-343
hereof.
(16) Small and medium wind energy conversion systemsup to a maximum of one hundred fifty feet in height, subject to theprovisions of § ZS 1-344 hereof.
(17) Spray irrigation fields and storage lagoons for
Class II effluent in accordance with the provisions of § ZS 1-328(g)
hereof.
(18)
Large solar energy systems in accordance with the provisionsof § ZS 1-344(d)(2) hereof.[Added 3-15-2011 by Bill No. 11-2]
(c) Special exceptions. Thefollowing principal uses and structures may be permitted by specialexception in the A-1 District in accordance with the provisions of
§ ZS 1-116(c) hereof:
(1) Commercial grain dryers, feed mills, grain, fertilizer,feed, seed, implement and other agricultural storage and repair andsales facilities. Minimum lot requirements shall be: lot area, fiveacres; lot width, five hundred feet; front yard setback, thirty-fivefeet [see § ZS 1-305(b) hereof]; each side yard setback,thirty feet; and rear yard setback, thirty feet; and subject to theprovisions of § ZS 1-325 hereof. Facilities for thebulk handling of grain, fertilizer and other materials shall be locatedat least two hundred feet from all perimeter property lines and publicroad rights-of-way.
(2) Agricultural processing plants, storage, and wholesaleor retail sale of locally grown vegetables and field crops. Minimumlot requirements shall be: lot area, five acres; lot width, four hundredfeet; front yard setback, one hundred feet; each side yard, one hundredfeet; and rear yard setback, one hundred feet.
(3) Livestock purchase and sales yards. Minimum lotrequirements shall be: lot area, ten acres; lot width, five hundredfeet; front yard setback, fifty feet [see § ZS 1-305(b)
hereof]; each side yard setback, fifty feet; and rear yard setback,fifty feet. Furthermore, all buildings and yards designed for theconcentrated containment of animals shall be located at least twohundred feet from any perimeter property line or public road right-of-way.
(4) Commercial repair of seafood harvesting and agriculturalequipment (not including general highway vehicles). Minimum lot requirementsshall be: lot area, forty thousand square feet; lot width, two hundredfeet; front yard setback, thirty-five feet [see § ZS 1-305(b)
hereof]; each side yard setback, thirty feet; and rear yard setback,thirty feet; provided that all work and storage areas are enclosedwithin a building or screened from public view.
(5) Landing, storage and processing facilities forseafood, including sales of the seafood landed or processed on site.
Minimum lot requirements shall be: lot area, forty thousand squarefeet; lot width, two hundred feet; front yard setback, thirty-fivefeet [see § ZS 1-305(b) hereof]; each side yard setback,thirty feet; and rear yard setback, thirty feet; and subject to theprovisions of § ZS 1-325 hereof.
(6) Aquaculture processing facilities, including freezing,packing, canning, processing, storage and shipping facilities andwholesale and retail sales. Minimum lot requirements shall apply forstructures only and shall be: lot area, five acres; lot width, twohundred feet; front yard setback, thirty-five feet [see § ZS 1-305(b)
hereof]; each side yard setback, twenty feet; and rear yard setback,twenty feet; and subject to the provisions of § ZS 1-325
hereof
(7) Roadside stands and garden centers offering forsale fresh agricultural products, fresh seafood, nursery stock andplants but not including gardening supplies and equipment, lawn ornaments,and similar items. Minimum lot requirements shall be: lot area, threeacres; lot width, two hundred feet; front yard setback, thirty-fivefeet [see § ZS 1-305(b) hereof]; each side yard setback,thirty feet; and rear yard setback, thirty feet; and subject to theprovisions of §§ ZS 1-322 and 1-325 hereof. Signsshall be subject to the provisions of § ZS 1-324 hereof.
(8) Sawmills and the manufacturing or processing ofwood products. Minimum lot requirements shall be: lot area, five acres;
lot width, five hundred feet; front yard setback, one hundred feet;
each side yard, one hundred feet; and rear yard setback, one hundredfeet; and subject to the provisions of § ZS 1-325 hereof.
No logs, lumber or by-products shall be stored in any required yardsetback, and all power-driven machinery shall be located at leasttwo hundred feet from all perimeter property lines and public roadrights-of-way.
(9) Agritainment facilities. Minimum lot requirementsshall be: lot area, five acres; lot width, two hundred feet; frontyard setback, thirty-five feet [see § ZS 1-305(b) hereof];
each side yard setback, thirty feet; and rear yard setback, thirtyfeet; and subject to the provisions of §§ ZS 1-322,
ZS 1-323 and ZS 1-325 hereof. Furthermore, the total grossfloor area, including storage, of all buildings and structures usedfor restaurant and retail sales establishments within the agritainmentfacility shall not exceed five thousand square feet. Festivals maybe permitted up to four times per year. For purposes of this section,a "festival" is an event conducted at an agritainment facility forup to three consecutive days for the purpose of promoting productsgrown on the farm or farm- related education or recreation.
(10) Wineries as a part of a producing vineyard. Wineriesinclude crushing, fermenting, blending, aging, storage, bottling,administrative office functions for the winery, warehousing and shippingfacilities. Retail sales and tasting facilities of wine and relatedpromotional items may be permitted as an incidental use as part ofthe winery operations. The retail sale of hot and cold food itemsfor on-premises consumption only may also be permitted as an accessoryuse to an established winery during the hours of operation of itswine tasting facilities. The gross floor area of all wine tastingareas, retail sales, food preparation and dining areas shall not exceedtwo thousand five hundred square feet on the winery property. Minimumlot requirements shall apply for structures only and shall be lotarea, five acres; lot width, two hundred feet; front yard setback,thirty-five feet [see § ZS 1-305(b) hereof]; each side yardsetback, twenty feet; and rear yard setback, twenty feet; and subjectto the provisions of §§ ZS 1-322 and ZS 1-325 hereof.[Amended 7-19-2016 by
Bill No. 16-4]
A. Additionally, the commercial hosting of non-agriculturalfunctions and events, including, but not limited to, wedding receptions,family reunions, birthday and anniversary celebrations, children'sparties, corporate and employee appreciation parties, and the like,shall be permitted as an accessory use to an established winery. Notwithstandingthe public gross floor area limitations of the winery operation ascontained in Subsection (c)(10) above, one additional accessory buildingnot exceeding three thousand square feet of gross floor area may bepermitted for the commercial hosting of non-agricultural functionsand events only. All such uses must be clearly accessory and subordinateto the principal agricultural structure or use of the property. Allbuilding, fire, health, zoning, and environmental code requirementsfor such a use or facility shall apply to the same extent as if thestructure or use of land was not located on a farm. Minimum lot requirementsshall be: lot area, ten acres; lot width, two hundred feet; frontyard setback, one hundred feet; each side yard setback, one hundredfeet; and rear yard setback, one hundred feet; and subject to theprovisions of §§ ZS 1-322 and ZS 1-325 hereof.[Added 2-21-2017 by Bill
No. 16-6]
(11) Farm labor camps for temporary occupancy. Minimumlot requirements shall be: lot area, five acres; lot width, five hundredfeet; front yard setback, two hundred feet; each side yard setback,two hundred feet; and rear yard setback, two hundred feet. Furthermore,such camps shall be limited to no more than fifteen units with a maximumcapacity of six persons per unit, provided that all state and Countyhealth regulations shall be met.
(12) Manufactured homes for nonresidential use. Useof a manufactured home for other than residential purposes shall belimited to uses permitted in the A-1 District and shall meet the lotrequirements specified for such use, subject to the provisions of
§ ZS 1-314 hereof. See § ZS 1-305(r)
hereof.
(13) Firehouses, governmental offices and other publicbuildings, structures and uses of an administrative or public-servicetype. Minimum lot requirements shall be: lot area, forty thousandsquare feet; lot width, two hundred feet; front yard setback, thirty-fivefeet [see § ZS 1-305(b) hereof]; each side yard setback,thirty feet; and rear yard setback, thirty feet; and subject to theprovisions of § ZS 1-325 hereof.
(14) Assisted living facilities, provided they areresidence-based and serve no more than five clients. Minimum lot requirementsshall be: lot area, forty thousand square feet; lot width, two hundredfeet; front yard setback, thirty-five feet [see § ZS 1-305(b)
hereof]; each side yard setback, thirty feet; and rear yard setback,thirty feet; and subject to the provisions of §§ ZS 1-305(r)
and ZS 1-325 hereof.
(15) Day-care centers. Minimum lot requirements shallbe: lot area, forty thousand square feet; lot width, two hundred feet;
front yard setback, thirty-five feet [see § ZS 1-305(b)
hereof]; each side yard setback, twenty feet; and rear yard setback,fifty feet; and subject to the provisions of §§ ZS 1-305(r)
and ZS 1-325 hereof.
(16) Surface mining in accordance with the provisionsof § ZS 1-330 hereof.
(17) Commercial riding and boarding stables for threeor more animals. Minimum lot requirements shall be: lot area, fiveacres; lot width, five hundred feet; front yard setback, thirty-fivefeet [see § ZS 1-305(b) hereof]; each side yard setback,thirty feet; and rear yard setback, thirty feet. Furthermore, stablesshall be located at least two hundred feet from any perimeter propertyline or public road right-of-way, and there shall be one acre of lotarea for each animal stabled.
(18) Conversion of existing vacant or inactive structurespreviously utilized for commercial, industrial or agricultural processingpurposes into uses consistent with the intent of the A-1 Districtand its permitted principal uses and with the general character ofthe surrounding area. Minimum lot requirements shall be as determinedand approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals. Conversion of existingstructures shall be established only with Health Department approvaland shall be subject to the provisions of § ZS 1-325
hereof.
(19) Churches, temples and mosques. Minimum lot requirementsshall be: lot area, two acres; lot width, two hundred feet; frontyard setback, thirty feet [see § ZS 1-305(b) hereof];
each side yard setback, thirty feet; and rear yard setback, thirtyfeet. See § ZS 1-305(r) hereof.
(20) Cemeteries, including family burial grounds, chapelsand mausoleums. Minimum lot requirements shall be: lot area, fortythousand square feet; lot width, two hundred feet; front yard setback,thirty-five feet [see § ZS 1-305(b) hereof]; and noside or rear yard setbacks required unless imposed by the Board. Nostructures, monuments or grave sites shall be located in any requiredyard setback.
(21) Gun clubs, archery ranges and shooting ranges.
Minimum lot requirements shall be: lot area, one hundred acres; lotwidth, one thousand feet; front yard setback, three hundred feet;
each side yard setback, three hundred feet; and rear yard setback,three hundred feet; and subject to the provisions of § ZS 1-325
hereof.
(22) Public and private noncommercial cultural, socialand recreational areas and centers, including parks and playgroundsbut not including community centers, fraternal lodges, country clubs,swimming pools, summer camps, and racetracks. Minimum lot requirementsshall be: lot area, forty thousand square feet; lot width, two hundredfeet; front yard setback, thirty-five feet [see § ZS 1-305(b)
hereof]; each side yard setback, thirty feet; and rear yard setback,thirty feet; and subject to the provisions of § ZS 1-325
hereof.
(23) Public utility structures and properties otherthan essential services as defined in § ZS 1-121 hereof,including cross-County lines and mains of all kinds, subject to theprovisions of § ZS 1-325 hereof. Minimum lot requirementsfor construction, maintenance or storage buildings or yards shallbe: lot area, twenty thousand square feet; lot width, one hundredfeet; front yard setback, thirty-five feet [see § ZS 1-305(b)
hereof]; each side yard setback, thirty feet; and rear yard setback,thirty feet. See § ZS 1-328 hereof for lot requirementsfor all other facilities. During its review of any public utilitystructure or property, the Planning Commission may require screening,buffering or landscaping of said structure or property where deemednecessary to protect adjoining land uses.
(24) Wastewater and water treatment facilities in accordancewith the provisions of § ZS 1-328 hereof.
(25) Sewage sludge disposal site areas subject to theprovisions of § ZS 1-328 hereof.
(26) Solid waste disposal sites in accordance withthe provisions of § ZS 1-329 hereof.
(27) Dredge spoil disposal sites. Lot requirementsfor dredge spoil disposal sites, special conditions of operation andconditions regarding reclamation of sites shall be as specified bythe Board of Zoning Appeals.
(28) The addition to existing structures of telecommunicationsfacilities that have the effect of increasing the overall height ofthe existing structure, subject to the provisions of § ZS 1-343
hereof.
(29) Monopoles and freestanding towers over one hundredfifty feet in height and guyed towers, subject to the provisions of
§ ZS 1-343 hereof.
(30) Small and medium wind energy conversion systemsover one hundred fifty feet in height, subject to the provisions of
§ ZS 1-344 hereof.
(31) Commercial kennels. Minimum lot requirements shallbe: lot area, forty thousand square feet; lot width, two hundred feet;
front yard setback, thirty-five feet [see § ZS 1-305(b)
hereof]; each side yard setback, fifty feet; and rear yard setback,fifty feet; and subject to the provisions of § ZS 1-325
hereof. Furthermore, all outside pens and runways shall be at leasttwo hundred feet from any perimeter property line or public road right-of-way.[Added 6-19-2012 by Bill No. 12-3;[2] amended 6-15-2021 by Bill No. 21-4]
[2]
Editor's Note: This bill also redesignated former § ZS
1-201(c)(31) as § ZS 1-201(c)(32).
(32) Noncommercial scientific research stations forthe collection of atmospheric, astronomic, weather or biological datafor research purposes by academic, non-profit or governmental entities.
Minimum lot requirements for structures only shall be: lot area, fortythousand square feet; lot width, two hundred feet; front yard setback,fifty feet [see § ZS 1-305(b) hereof]; each side yard setback,twenty feet; and rear yard setback, twenty feet. Notwithstanding theprovisions of § ZS 1-305(n) the maximum height of any equipmentor structure shall be fifty feet. Furthermore, all radar or microwaveequipment for data collection or antennas for data transmission shallbe separated by not less than five hundred feet from the nearest existingor permitted residential structure on an adjacent parcel.[Added 12-16-2014 by Bill No. 14-12[3]]
[3]
Editor's Note: This bill also renumbered former Subsection
(c)(32) as Subsection (c)(33).
(33) On a farm as defined herein, the accessory useof a principal agricultural structure or use of land for the commercialhosting of non-agricultural functions and events, including, but notlimited to, wedding receptions, family reunions, birthday and anniversarycelebrations, children's parties, corporate and employee appreciationparties, and the like. All such uses must be clearly accessory andsubordinate to the principal agricultural structure or use of theproperty. All building, fire, health, zoning, and environmental coderequirements for such a use or facility shall apply to the same extentas if the structure or use of land was not located on a farm. Minimumlot requirements for the principal agricultural structure or use ofland shall be: lot area, twenty-five acres; lot width, two hundredfeet; front yard setback, one hundred feet; each side yard setback,one hundred feet; and rear yard setback, one hundred feet; and subjectto the provisions of § ZS 1-325 hereof. The site of thecommercial event itself and all associated use areas shall be locatednot less than five hundred feet from any residential structure onan adjacent property or public road and no variance to this requirementis permitted notwithstanding the provisions of § ZS 1-116(c)(4).
Any amplified music associated with such a use must end by 11:00 p.m.[Added 2-21-2017 by Bill No. 16-7[4]]
[4]
Editor's Note: This bill also redesignated former Subsection
(c)(33) as Subsection (c)(34).
(34) Any use or structure which is determined by the
Board of Zoning Appeals to be of the same general character as anabove-permitted use, not specifically mentioned in another districtand compatible with the general character and intent of the A-1 District.
(d) Accessory uses and structures. The following accessory uses and structures shall be permitted inthe A-1 District:
(1) On a farm, as herein defined, a second single-familydwelling for the farm owner, farm tenant or member of his immediatefamily or for a person primarily engaged in the operation of the farm,provided that the dwelling is located such that, if it were subdividedfrom the main parcel, it could meet all of the requirements for asingle-family dwelling in the A-1 District.
(2) Noncommercial private residential parking garagesand areas, noncommercial buildings for farm animals, swimming poolsand other customary residential outbuildings and structures for theuse of residents. Buildings for farm animals shall be at least fiftyfeet from any perimeter property line or public road right-of-way.
(3) Customary incidental home occupations, subjectto the provisions of § ZS 1-339 hereof.
(4) The keeping of not more than two roomers or boarders.
(5) Roadside stands not to exceed a maximum of onehundred fifty square feet in size and offering for sale fresh agriculturalproducts, operated by the property owner or tenant of the premisesupon which such stand is located. Such stands shall be located soas not to create a traffic hazard, shall be completely removed atthe end of the fresh product season and shall be subject to the provisionsof § ZS 1-305(h)(2)A hereof. Signs shall be subjectto the provisions of § ZS 1-324 hereof.
(6) Signs on the premises advertising a lawful useconducted on the premises and temporary and directional signs. Allsigns shall be subject to the provisions of § ZS 1-324
hereof.
(7) Private waterfront structures, subject to the provisionsof § NR 2-102 of the Natural Resources Article of the Codeof Public Local Laws of Worcester County, Maryland and § ZS 1-335
hereof.
(8) Temporary buildings and structures, subject tothe provisions of § ZS 1-334 hereof.
(9) Accessory apartments, subject to the provisionsof § ZS 1-338 hereof.
(10) On a farm, as defined herein, not more than twomanufactured homes for the farm owner, tenant or member of his immediatefamily or for persons primarily engaged in the operation of the farm,provided that such manufactured homes are located in the farm buildinggroup, no closer to any public road right-of-way than the principalbuilding, no closer than the required front yard setback and not lessthan one hundred feet from any side or rear lot line. Such manufacturedhomes shall be located only with the Environmental Programs Divisionapproval, subject to the provisions of § ZS 1-314(a)
hereof. A manufactured home in the farm building group shall be locatedwithin two hundred feet of the main farm building or accessory farmstructure.
(11) Yard sales, subject to the provisions of § ZS 1-341
hereof.
(12) Noncommercial production of biofuels on a farmas a use incidental to the farm operation.
(e) Height regulations. Exceptfor certain other buildings, structures or parts thereof as providedin § ZS 1-305 hereof, no flat-roofed principal structureshall exceed a height of thirty-five feet, no pitched-roof principalstructure shall exceed a height of forty-five feet, and no flat- orpitched-roofed principal structure shall exceed four stories. In addition,no accessory structure shall exceed either two stories or twenty-fivefeet in height.
(1)
The Board of Zoning Appeals may permit as a special exceptionan increase in the maximum height, but not number of stories, of aresidential accessory structure to no more than thirty-five feet if,in the view of the Board, such increase will serve to reduce an environmentalimpact and no neighborhood adverse effects or safety hazards willbe created. Notwithstanding the provisions of §§ ZS 1-116(c)(4)
and ZS 1-305(h)(2), any residential accessory structure exceedingtwenty-five feet in height shall comply with the setbacks for theprincipal use or structure.[Added 1-5-2021 by Bill No. 21-1]
(f) Other regulations. The usesand structures permitted in the A-1 District shall be subject to theapplicable regulations contained in Subtitle ZS1:I, General Provisions,and Subtitle ZS1:III, Supplementary Districts and District Regulations,of this Title.