a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.5281948714621443
[Modified House Bill No. 2561.] | 
[271.] | 
AN ACT CONCERNING INCORPORATION OF THE CLINTON
BEACH ASSOCIATION. | 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
in General Assembly convened: | 
SECTION 1. The owners of record of any land
within the limits hereinafter specified in the Town of Clinton shall
be, while they continue to be owners of such land, a body politic
and corporate, under the name of "The Clinton Beach Association,"
and by that name they and their successors shall be a corporation
in law with all the powers and privileges of corporations as set forth
in the general statutes and with the rights, powers, privileges and
duties hereinafter set forth. Each such landowner who is twenty-one
years of age or over shall, while he continues to own land within
said limits, be a member of The Clinton Beach Association and entitled
to vote at any meeting of said association and shall be eligible to
hold any office in said association. All owners of fractional or undivided
interests in any land shall be considered as one member for the purpose
of voting and for purposes of the assessment under section 5 of this
act and shall be entitled collectively to one vote to be cast as the
majority in interest shall determine. No member shall have more than
one vote. | 
SEC. 2. The territory of said association shall
be that part of the Town of Clinton known as Clinton Beach, Clinton,
Connecticut, consisting of all lots on the north and south sides of
Shore road and Causeway from that property known as Ridgewood on the
west to the Grove Beach Improvement Association limits on the east
end of Shore road, and shall include the meadowland north to the Tidal
river also known as Hammock creek or Hammock river and bounded on
the north by the Hammock creek or Hammock river and an imaginary line
from a point two hundred feet from the southerly edge of the Post
road, United States route 1, and the filum of the Hammock creek or
Hammock river, castorly to the westerly boundary of the Grove Beach
Improvement Association, as shown on certain maps entitled Areal Map
CLI-1-25, No. 79 and CLI-1-4, No. 86 each dated 4-21-65 which maps
are on file in the office of the Town assessor of Clinton, Connecticut,
together with the beach on the south side along the mean highwater
line of Long Island sound. Said territory is bounded as follows: Commencing
at a point two hundred feet from the southerly edge of a road known
as the Post Road, United States route 1, and the filum of a stream
in the marsh land, there located, known as Hammock creek or Hammock
river; thence easterly about five hundred seventy-five feet to a point
two hundred feet from the Post road, United States route 1, on the
west boundary of the Grove Beach Improvement Association; thence running
due south to the mean high-water mark of Long Island Sound, said line
being the westerly border of the Grove Beach Improvement Association;
thence westerly along the mean high-water mark of Long Island sound
to the westerly border of property now or formerly of Elizabeth W.
Dorsch, and formerly of Lilla Woolley, and more particularly described
at Volume 29, Page 477 of the Clinton Land Records; thence northerly
along said border to the southerly side of the shore road; thence
westerly along the southerly edge of shore road about fifty feet to
an imaginary point formed by extending the westerly border of land
now or formerly of Charles Burton, and more particularly described
at Volume 51, Page 83 of the Clinton Land Records, in a southerly
direction to the southerly edge of Shore road; thence northerly along
the said imaginary line and westerly border of said land past the
northerly border of said land along an imaginary line, formed by extending
said westerly line of said land in a northerly direction, to the point
where it reaches the filum of a stream in the marshland there located
known as Hammock creek or Hammock river; thence easterly along the
filum of the said Hammock creek or Hammock river to the point of beginning.
It is bounded: Easterly by the westerly line of the Grove Beach Improvement
Association; Southerly by Long Island sound; Westerly by the westerly
borders of land now or formerly of Elizabeth W. Dorach and of land
now or formerly of Charles Burton, and by above described extensions
of the westerly borders of said lands; Northerly by the Tidal river,
also known as Hammock creek or Hammock river and an imaginary line
from a point two hundred feet from the southerly edge of the Post
road, United States Route 1, and the filum of the Hammock creek or
Hammock river, easterly to the westerly boundary of the Grove Beach
Improvement Association. | 
SEC. 3. The object of said association shall
be to provide for the improvement of the land and adjacent waters
of said territory as a residential and resort area and for the health,
safety, welfare, comfort, protection and convenience of the inhabitants
thereof. | 
SEC. 4. At any time hereafter any parcel of
land which is contiguous to the territory in said association as above
defined may become a part of the territory of said association in
the following manner: The owners may make a written application that
such contiguous land bounding the same be added to the territory of
the association. The officer receiving such application shall cause
same to be considered and acted upon by the board of directors within
ninety days. If a majority of the whole membership of such board favor
such annexation, they may call a special meeting of the association
to consider said matter. Such meeting shall be warned as special meetings
of the associations are warned. If a special meeting is not called
to consider said matter, that matter shall be acted upon at the next
annual meeting. Notification of said business will be given to the
membership pursuant to section 10 of this act. If a majority of the
members present vote in favor of such annexation, then the territory
in question shall be annexed to the territory of the association and
such property and the owners thereof shall thereafter have the same
rights and be subject to the same liabilities as if the same had been
an original part of the territory of said association. The owners
of said contiguous territory or their representatives shall be fully
responsible for compliance with chapter 105 and other applicable provisions
of the general statutes, and The Clinton Beach Association shall in
no way become liable for defending any actions which may be brought
in any connection with the annexation of said contiguous territory
to said Clinton Beach Association, nor shall said Clinton Beach Association
be subject to any liability whatsoever of said annexed territory either
as a unit or in any of or all of its parts. Upon the annexation of
any territory to the said association as herein provided, the Clerk
shall within one month provide appropriate notation thereof on the
Clinton Land Records. | 
SEC. 5-20. — [Text omitted — Generally
provides for meetings, officers, by-laws, powers, and taxation.] | 
SEC. 21. This act shall take effect upon its
approval by a majority vote of the qualified members of the association
as defined in section 1 of this act attending a meeting held for the
purpose, duly warned. | 
Approved June 20, 1967. | 
Approved: Date of vote, July 14, 1967. Vote
for, unanimous. | 
General Assembly — January, 1967. | 
Special Acts, 1967 — p. 259. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.522732232344533
[Substitute for House Bill No. 1174.] | 
[371] | 
AN ACT CREATING A BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS
AND A POLICE DEPARTMENT IN THE TOWN OF CLINTON. | 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
in General Assembly convened | 
SECTION 1. There is created a board of police
commissioners for the Town of Clinton. Said board shall consist of
three resident electors of said Town to be appointed by the board
of selectmen thereof within thirty days after the passage of this
act. One of said police commissioners shall be appointed to serve
until July 1, 1939, one to serve until July 1, 1940, and one to serve
until July 1, 1941. In the month of June, 1939, and annually thereafter,
said board of selectmen shall appoint one police commissioner for
the term of three years from the first day of July succeeding his
appointment. Said commissioners shall serve until their successors
shall be appointed and shall have qualified. Each of said commissioners
shall be sworn to the faithful performance of his duties. At no time
shall all three commissioners be members of the same political party.
Said board shall elect annually a chairman and secretary from their
number. Meetings may be called by the chairman or by a majority of
the members of the board. A majority of the members of the board shall
constitute a quorum. Said board shall make an annual report to the
selectmen, which report shall be included with and published by the
selectmen in the annual report of said Town. | 
SEC. 2. All vacancies occurring in said board
shall be filled by the board of selectmen. | 
SEC. 3. The members of said board shall serve
without compensation, but the necessary expenses of said board, including
cash disbursements or actual expenses incurred by any member thereof
in the performance of any duty imposed upon him by direction of said
board shall be paid by said Town. | 
SEC. 4. Said board shall organize, maintain
and have the general management and control of a police department
of the Town of Clinton. All apparatus, equipment and buildings owned
and used by said Town for police purposes shall be under said board's
control and management. Said board shall requisition all equipment
for the department; shall annually prepare a budget; shall appoint,
remove, suspend, discipline and prescribe the duties of the police
officers whether regular, supernumerary or call members and fix their
compensation and shall make all rules and regulations governing the
department which it may deem necessary consistent with the provisions
hereof. | 
SEC. 5. Said board shall fix the number and
designation of all members of the police department, one of whom shall
be a chief of police, who shall be the chief administrative officer
in the department and responsible to the board of commissioners for
its efficiency and for the execution of all laws, rules and regulations
prescribed by said board. | 
SEC. 6. The officers appointed by said board
shall be known as policemen and shall have the authority and shall
perform all the duties delegated to Town constables in criminal matters.
All fees for services rendered by such officers in any criminal matter
shall be paid to the Town. | 
SEC. 7. After this act shall be in effect, constables
in the Town of Clinton shall no longer have the authority to serve
criminal process. | 
SEC. 8. Any person appointed a policeman by
said board under the provisions of this act shall serve as such from
the date of such appointment unless sooner removed for cause by said
board. If any charge shall be filed against a policeman appointed
by said board, the same shall be in writing, and such policeman may
file any proper answer thereto and action shall not be taken upon
such charges until after reasonable notice thereof and opportunity
afforded such policeman to appear before the board and be heard concerning
the same. After such hearing, any policeman aggrieved thereby may
appeal to the next or next but one following return day of the superior
court for Middlesed county. | 
Approved, May 29, 1939. | 
General Assembly — January, 1939. | 
Special Acts, 1939 — p. 273. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.4807659531410621
[House Joint Resolution No. 153.] | 
[304] | 
AMENDING THE CHARTER OF THE GROVE BEACH IMPROVEMENT
ASSOCIATION | 
BE IT RESOLVED BY THIS ASSEMBLY: | 
Summary: Amend the charter of the Grove Beach
Improvement Association, approved April 3, 1895, by adding two sections
to be known as sections 16 and 17. | 
SEC. 16 gives the association full and complete
power to construct and maintain a system of sewerage and drainage
within its limits and to levy and collect assessments with respect
thereto. | 
SEC. 17 provides that the sanitary board of
the association shall have authority to order and direct the connections
with the sewerage system. | 
Approved, May 27, 1903. | 
General Assembly — January, 1903. | 
Special Laws — Vol. XIV, p. 237. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.4740967471887027
[Substitute for House Bill No. 1125.] | 
[547] | 
AN ACT PROVIDING FOR BIENNIAL ELECTIONS IN THE
TOWN OF CLINTON | 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
in General Assemble convened. | 
SECTION. 1. At the annual Town election of the
Town of Clinton to be held on the first Monday of October, 1939, and
biennially thereafter, there shall be elected three selectmen, two
registrars of voters, seven constables, six grand jurors, two auditors,
a collector of taxes, a Town treasurer and an agent of the Town deposit
fund, each of whom shall hold office for two years from the date of
his election and until his successors shall be elected and shall have
qualified. There shall also be elected at said election, and biennially
thereafter, a Town Clerk, who shall hold office for two years from
the first Monday in January next succeeding his election and until
his successors shall be elected and shall have qualified. | 
SEC. 2. There shall also be elected at said
election on the first Monday of October, 1939, and biennially thereafter,
one member of the board of assessors and one member of the board of
tax review, each for a term of six years. The term of office of the
member of the board of assessors and the term of office of the member
of the board of tax review elected on the first Monday of October,
1937, shall be extended until the first Monday of October, 1943. | 
SEC. 3. There shall also be elected at said
election on said first Monday of October, 1939, three members of the
board of education for a term of four years. The terms of office of
the members of the board of education elected on the first Monday
of October, 1937, shall be extended until the first Monday of October,
1941. At the election to be held on the first Monday of October, 1941,
and biennially thereafter, there shall be elected members of the board
of education for a term of four years to succeed those whose terms
expire at such time. | 
SEC. 4. If the number of officers to be elected
under the provisions of this act shall be even, no person shall vote
for more than one-half of the number and, if the number to be elected
shall be odd, no person shall vote for more than a bare majority of
the number. | 
SEC. 5. This act shall take effect upon its
approval by the electors of the Town of Clinton at a special Town
meeting to be held on or before the first Monday of August, 1939. | 
Approved, June 20, 1939. | 
General Assembly — January, 1939. | 
Special Acts, 1939 — p. 615. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.47387352842579433
[House Bill No. 195.] | 
[615] | 
AN ACT INCORPORATING THE BEACH PARK ROAD ASSOCIATION | 
SECTION 1. The owners of record of land within
the limits specified in section 2 of this act, in the locality known
as Beach Park road, Beach Park, in the Town of Clinton, shall be,
while they continue to be owners of such land, a body politic and
corporate by the name of Beach Park Road Association, and by that
name they and their successors shall be a corporation in law, capable
of suing, being sued, pleading and being impleaded in all courts,
and shall be vested with the powers hereinafter specified. Each member
of the association, of the age of twenty-one years or over, not otherwise
prohibited by law from voting, so long as he shall continue to own
real estate in said territory, shall be entitled to vote at any meeting
of said association and shall be eligible to hold any office therein.
All owners of any interest in any lot or parcel of real estate shall
be considered as one owner for the purpose of voting and shall be
entitled collectively to cast one undivided vote. Husbands or wives
of said owners shall be members of said association but shall not
be empowered to vote at any meeting of said association except in
the absence of said owners. | 
SEC. 2. The limits of said association shall
be that part of the Town of Clinton known as "Beach Park Road, Beach
Park," consisting of lots one to twenty-four, inclusive, and lot five
A as shown on "Map of property of Elizabeth S. Blake, made by John
S. Dickinson, surveyor" and filed in the office of the Town Clerk
in the Town of Clinton, Connecticut, on August 5, 1899, together with
the beach between the bulkhead shown on said map and tide water. Said
territory is bounded as follows: Beginning at a point in the southerly
boundary line of Hammock road and the northeastern boundary of lot
23; thence in a southerly direction along the easterly boundaries
of lots 23, 21, 19, 17, 15, 13, 11, 9, 7, 5A and 5, 3 and 1, to the
mean high water line of Long Island sound; thence following the shore
line in a generally westerly direction along the mean high water line
of said Long Island sound to the southwesterly boundary of lot 2 extended;
thence northerly along the westerly boundaries of lots 2, 4, 6, 8,
10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22 and 24 to the southerly boundary line of
Hammock road and the northwestern boundary of lot 24; thence easterly
along the southerly boundary line of Hammock road to the point of
place of beginning. | 
SEC. 3. The object of said association shall
be to provide for the improvement of the land of said territory and
for the health, comfort, protection and convenience of the inhabitants
thereof. | 
SEC. 4-17. — [Text omitted — Generally
provides for meetings, officers, by-laws, powers, and taxation.] | 
Approved, July 2, 1953. | 
General Assembly — January, 1953. | 
Special Acts, 1953 — p. 1208. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.4738445773680102
[Senate Bill No. 736.] | 
[526] | 
AN ACT CONCERNING THE INCORPORATION OF THE BEACH
PARK POINT ASSOCIATION. | 
SECTION 1. The owners of record of land within
the limits specified in section 2 of this act, in the locality known
as Beach Park Point, Beach Park, in the Town of Clinton, shall be,
while they continue to be owners of such land, a body politic and
corporate by the name of Beach Park Point Association, and by that
name they and their successors shall be a corporation in law, capable
of suing and being sued, and pleading and being impleaded in all courts,
and shall be vested with the powers hereinafter specified. Each member
of the association, of the age of twenty-one years or over, not otherwise
prohibited by law from voting, so long as he shall continue to own
real estate in said territory, shall be entitled to vote at any meeting
of said association and shall be eligible to hold any office therein.
All owners of any interest in any lot or parcel of real estate shall
be considered as one owner for the purpose of voting and shall be
entitled collectively to cast one undivided vote. Husbands and wives
of said owners shall be members of said association but shall not
be empowered to vote at any meeting of said association except in
the absence of said owners. | 
SEC. 2. The limits of said association shall
be that part of the Town of Clinton known as East Walk and West Walk,
Beach Park, Connecticut, consisting of Lots numbers 1 to 35, inclusive,
on East Walk and Lots numbers 1 to 34, inclusive, on West Walk, as
shown on a certain map entitled "Property of R. B. Jacobs, Beach Park,
Conn., Scale 1 foot = 40 inches, Raymond B. Jacobs, maker, who also
certified that map was substantially correct," which map is on file
in the office of the Town Clerk of Clinton, Connecticut, together
with the beach between Lots numbers 31, 32, 33 and 34 on West Walk
and Lots numbers 33, 34, and 35 on East Walk to the mean high-water
line of Long Island sound. Said territory is bounded as follows: Beginning
at a point in the south line of the highway at a point marked "Bound"
on said map; thence running southerly along the easterly boundary
of the road, and opposite Lots numbers 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16,
18, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 32 and 34, to the mean high-water line
of Long Island sound; thence following the shore line in a general
westerly direction along the mean high-water line of said Long Island
sound, to the westerly boundary of Lot number 31, extended; thence
northerly along the westerly boundary of the road and opposite Lots
numbers 31, 29, 27, 25, 23, 21, 19, 17, 15, 13, 11, 9, 7, 5, 3, 1
to a point in the southerly boundary line of the highway; thence easterly
along the highway to the point or place of beginning. | 
SEC. 3. The object of said association shall
be to provide for the improvement of the land within its limits and
for the health, comfort, protection and convenience of the inhabitants
thereof. | 
SEC. 4-16. — [Text omitted — Generally
provides for meetings, officers, by-laws, powers, and taxation.] | 
Approved, July 26, 1949. | 
General Assembly — January, 1949. | 
Special Acts, 1949 — p. 1307. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.4726654873218794
CLINTON — TOWN INCORPORATED | 
INCORPORATING THE TOWN OF CLINTON. | 
PASSED 1838. | 
Upon the petition of sundry inhabitants of the
Town of Killingworth, in the County of Middlesex, praying for reasons
therein set forth, that a division may be made of said Town, and that
a new Town may be incorporated therefrom, as per petition on file: | 
Resolved, SEC. 1. That all that part of the
Town of Killingworth, in the county of Middlesex, lying south of the
line dividing the first and second school societies in said Town,
be and the same is hereby made and constituted a separate and distinct
Town, by the name of CLINTON. And all the inhabitants now, or at any
time, residing south of said line in said Town, shall be and remain
a separate and distinct corporation, with all the powers, rights and
privileges, and subject to all the liabilities and obligations of
other towns in this state, with the right of sending one representative
to the general assembly. | 
Resolved further, SEC. 2. That all the paupers
of said old Town of Killingworth shall be divided between the two
towns of Killingworth and Clinton, according to their respective assessment
lists on the levy of 1837; and all persons who may hereafter become
paupers of said old Town of Killingworth, but who are now residing
elsewhere, shall be divided between said two towns of Killingworth
and Clinton as aforesaid. And said new Town shall pay its proportion,
according to the assessment list of 1837, of all the debts, liabilities,
charges and expenses already due and commenced, or which may exist
against said old Town of Killingworth, at the time of the passage
of this bill; and said new Town shall receive its proportion according
to said list, of all funds and property belonging to said old Town
of Killingworth, at the time of the passage of this bill, excepting
the public records. Provided always, that if after the organization
of said Town of Clinton, the selectmen of said two towns cannot agree
as to which Town any such paupers belong, or as to the division of
funds and property belonging to said old Town of Killingworth, the
selectmen of either Town may apply to Ely Warner, Ebenezer Cone and
Obadiah Spencer, who are hereby authorized and empowered to divide
said paupers and said funds and property, in manner and form as aforesaid,
which division shall be final and conclusive. | 
SEC. 3. The Town and highway taxes, laid upon
the polls and ratable estate in said old Town of Killingworth, on
the first Monday of October last, shall be divided between said two
towns, according to the list of polls and ratable estate in said two
towns respectively; and said Town of Clinton may appoint a collector,
who shall have power to collect all that part of said Town tax, which
has accrued within and belonging to said new Town. | 
Resolved further, SEC. 4. That a meeting of
the inhabitants of said Town of Clinton shall be warned by Austin
Olcott, Esq., or in his absence by David Dibble, Esq., to be held
in the meeting house of the first Congregational society of said Town,
at such time as he shall appoint, within twenty days from the time
this bill shall take effect, for the purpose of choosing all the necessary
and proper officers of said Town, which meeting shall be warned in
the same manner as other Town meetings in this state, and shall have
power to transact any business proper to be done by said Town; and
said Olcott or Dibble shall be moderator of said meeting. | 
SEC. 5. That this act shall take effect from
and after the day of its passage. | 
General Assembly — Private Laws —
Vol. IV, p. 1230. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.4678949049392221
[House Joint Resolution No. 352.] | 
[88] | 
INCORPORATING THE GROVE BEACH IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION. | 
Resolved by this Assembly; SECTION 1. That all
owners of cottages, dwellings, and building lots within the limits
hereinafter specified in the locality known as Grove Beach, in the
towns of Clinton and Westbrook, Middlesex county, are hereby constituted
a body politic and corporate, by the name of The Grove Beach Improvement
Association, and by that name they and their successors shall be a
corporation in law capable of suing and being sued, pleading and being
impleaded in all courts of whatsoever nature, and shall be vested
with and possess the powers hereinafter specified. | 
SEC. 2. The limits and territory of said Grove
Beach Improvement Association are hereby defined and established as
follows, to wit: all that territory in said towns of Clinton and Westbrook
bounded westerly by a line drawn due south from the center of the
first culvert east of the bridge over Hammock creek, on the new road
from Clinton to Westbrook, to low-water mark on Long Island sound;
southerly by the low-water line of Long Island sound from said mark
tot he highway running northerly near the farm house now owned by
William L. Lewis: easterly by said highway from low-water mark on
said sound to its junction with the new road from Clinton to Westbrook;
and northerly by said new road from said junction to the point of
starting. | 
SEC. 3-15. — [Text omitted — Generally
provides for meetings, officers, by-laws, powers, and assessments.] | 
Approved, April 3, 1895. | 
General Assembly — January, 1895. | 
Special Laws — Vol. XII, P. 118. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.4539803460503535
[House Bill No. 947.] | 
[382] | 
AN ACT AUTHORIZING THE TOWN OF CLINTON TO ISSUE
SCHOOL BONDS. | 
Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
in General Assembly Convened: | 
Summary: This act of three sections authorized
the Town of Clinton to issue bonds to an amount not in excess of $175,000.
for the repair or reconstruction of buildings at the time of the passage
of this act upon land owned by The Trustees of the Morgan School Fund
in the Town of Clinton or the erection of new buildings thereon, and
the equipping and furnishing of such buildings, all for school purposes.
Provisions for the detail of the bonds were specified and reference
made to applicable debt limitations. | 
Approved, June 18, 1929. | 
General Assembly — 1928. | 
Special Laws — Vol. XX, p. 974. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.4529150269454746
[House Joint Resolution No. 345.] | 
[43] | 
CONCERNING SCHOOL PROPERTY IN TOWN OF CLINTON. | 
Resolved by this Assembly: That the Town of
Clinton shall succeed to all rights which any of its school districts
enjoyed in any real estate within said Town, at the time when said
Town voted to consolidate its school districts. | 
Approved, March 21, 1895. | 
General Assembly — January, 1895. | 
Special Laws — Vol. XII, p. 43. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.44951699184115285
[Senate Bill No. 441.] | 
[213] | 
AN ACT AUTHORIZING H. W. REYNOLDS TO BUILD SEA
WALLS. | 
Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
in General Assembly Convened: | 
H. W. Reynolds of West Hartford is authorized
to construct and maintain a sea wall or sea walls in front of his
land situated at Grove Beach, in the Town of Clinton, on Long Island
Sound, said land being bounded northerly by the highway, easterly
by land formerly of Edward T. Mason, southerly by Lond Island Sound,
and westerly by land formerly of Catherine G. Means, and to fill in
and grade the space within said walls as he may deem expedient, provided
the same shall not obstruct public navigation; and the space so filled,
or to be filled as aforesaid, and the space southerly and easterly
of said land between said land and low water mark is granted to said
H. W. Reynolds, his heirs and assigns forever. | 
Approved, April 29, 1927. | 
General Assembly — 1927. | 
Special Laws — Vol. XX, p. 239. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.4487423530359131
[Substitute for House Bill No. 69] | 
[170] | 
AN ACT AMENDING THE CHARTER OF THE GROVE BEACH
IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION. | 
Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
in General Assembly Convened: | 
Summary: Amends the charter of the Grove Beach
Improvement Association, approved May 27, 1903, by striking out the
words "sanitary board" wherever they appear and inserting in lieu
thereof the words "governing board." Also authorizes the governing
board to enact by-laws or ordinances for various specified purposes,
including travel over the highway, removal of debris and obstructions,
control of garbage and waste material disposal, and to affix penalties.
Also provides for basis of assessment of property. | 
Approved, May 1, 1919. | 
General Assembly — January, 1919. | 
Special Laws — Vol. XVIII, p. 134. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.44725357482314887
BOROUGH OF KILLINGWORTH — INCORPORATED | 
AN ACT INCORPORATING THE BOROUGH OF KILLINGWORTH,
PASSED, MAY 1820. | 
SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House
of Representatives, in General Assembly convened, That all the freemen
of this State, inhabitants of the Town of Killingworth, in Middlesex
county, dwelling and inhabiting within the following bounds, viz.
beginning at the southern extremity of the division line between the
towns of Killingworth and Guilford, on Long-Island-Sound: thence northwardly,
on said division line, to Farm Bridge, on Hamanasset River: thence
north on said line to Hatter's Creek, (so called) which empties into
said river: thence following said creek northeasterly, until the said
creek crosses the Nodd Road, (so called): thence northeastwardly,
in a direct line so as to include the house of Jedediah Buell: thence
northeastwardly, so as to include the house of Samuel Kelsey: from
thence following the highway, leading to the house of Jesse Buell,
and including said house: thence southeasterly, so as to include the
house of Eber Wilcox: thence southeasterly, so as to include the house
of Asa Kelsey: thence eastwardly, on the highway, to the place where
it intersects with the Brush Hill Road, (so called): thence southwardly,
by the road leading to the house of Harvey Buell, and including the
same: from thence, in a line due south, to the southern boundary of
the State of Connecticut, on Long-Island-Sound: thence westwardly,
following said last mentioned boundary, to the first mentioned bounds,
be, and the same are hereby ordained, constituted, and declared to
be, from time to time, forever hereafter, one body corporate and politic,
in fact, and in name, by the name of, "The Warden, Burgesses, and
Freemen of the Borough of Killingworth": and by that name, they and
their successors, forever shall, and may have perpetual succession,
and shall be persons in law, capable of sueing and being sued, pleading,
and being impleaded, in all suits of whatever nature; and also to
purchase, hold and convey any estate, real or personal, and may have
a common seal, and may change and alter the same at pleasure. | 
SEC. 2. And for the better government of said
borough, be it further enacted, that there shall be a meeting of said
borough, holden annually, in the month of September, at such time
and place, as by the by-laws of said borough, shall be directed, for
the purpose of choosing all the officers of said borough, and that
the officers chosen at said meeting, shall continue in office, for,
and during the term of one year, from said annual meeting, unless
others shall be chosen sooner, and qualified in their stead. | 
SEC. 3. And that the said borough, in legal
meeting assembled, shall annually choose a warden, and six burgesses,
a Clerk, treasurer, and bailiff, all which officers shall be chosen
by ballot, and on each ballot which shall be given in, shall be written
the name, for whom the same is given, and such ballot shall, by the
person giving the same, in the presence of the warden and burgesses,
or such of them, as are present at such meeting, be put into a proper
box for that purpose, by said borough, to be provided; and when the
freemen present at any such meeting, shall have had a reasonable time
to give in their ballots, the warden, or in his absence, the senior
burgess present, in the presence of the meeting, shall open the box,
sort and count the ballots, and the person who shall have the majority
of the ballots given in, shall by the bailiff, or in his absence,
by the senior burgess present, be declared to be elected; and no ballot
shall be received after the box shall have been opened. | 
SEC. 4. And said borough, in legal meeting assembled,
shall have power, (the warden and majority of the burgesses concurring)
to admit to the freedom of said borough, all such freemen of this
State, inhabitants of the Town of Killingworth, without the limits
of said borough, as hold real estate, and are doing regular business
in said borough; which persons, so admitted, shall be entitled to
all the privileges of freemen, of said borough. | 
SEC. 5. And said borough, in legal meeting assembled,
shall have power to levy taxes on the polls and rateable estate, within
the limits of said borough, for such purposes as said borough shall
think proper; and to choose a collector or collectors, to collect
such taxes, who shall, having received a warrant for that purpose,
signed by the warden, have the same power as collectors of Town taxes
by law have, and shall be accountable to the warden and burgesses,
in the same manner as collectors of Town taxes are by law accountable
to the select-men: and in case any collector shall not perform the
trust committed to him, but shall fail of collecting such tax, according
to the terms of the warrant committed to him, on complaint thereof,
made by the burgesses to the warden, he shall issue his warrant under
his hand, directed to the bailiff, to distrain the sums or rates,
neglected by such collector, to be collected, or paid out of the estate
of the collector. | 
SEC. 6. The bailiff shall, within the limits
of said borough, and on the waters of said Killingworth harbour, whether
within said limits or not, have the same powers, authorities and privileges,
and be liable to the same suits and penalties, for neglect of duty
in any case whatever, to all intents and purposes, as constables by
law now have, and use in their respective towns, and shall execute
all lawful precepts to him directed, whether issued by virtue of the
by-laws of said borough, or by the laws of this State, within his
said described limits: and that the treasurer shall have the same
powers and privileges as Town treasurers now by law have, and shall
be accountable to said borough. | 
SEC. 7. The warden and burgesses be, and they
are hereby empowered to lay out new highways, streets and public walks,
for the use of said borough, and to exchange highways for highways,
or to sell highways for the purpose of purchasing other highways,
taking in all respects the same measures, as are directed by the laws
of this State, to be taken, in case of highways, laid out by select-men,
for the use of their towns; and the party aggrieved by the laying
out of such streets, or highways, may have the same remedy by application
to the County Courts, as is by law provided in case of highways laid
out by select-men; and whenever such highways so laid out by the warden
and burgesses, may become unnecessary to the public, it may be discontinued
by said warden and burgesses. | 
SEC. 8. Said warden and burgesses, within the
limits of said borough, have, use, possess and enjoy all the powers
and privileges granted to the select-men, and a justice of the peace
in the several towns, by the seventh and eighth paragraphs of an act
of the legislature, entitled "An Act providing in case of sickness." | 
SEC. 9. The warden and burgesses may, at the
expense of said borough, in some proper place in said borough, erect
and keep in sufficient repair a sign-post, which shall be a lawful
sign-post, according to an act of the legislature, entitled "An Act
for erecting and continuing a sign-post in each Town in this State." | 
SEC. 10. The warden and burgesses, or a majority
of them, shall have power to make by-laws, relative to markets and
commerce within the limits of said borough; relative to the streets,
and highways of said borough; relative to nuisances within said borough
limits; relative to wharves, docks, channels, anchoring and mooring
of vessels; relative to trees planted for shade or ornament, convenient
use, public or private; relative to sweeping of chimneys, and preserving
said borough from injury, from fire; relative to the forms of oath,
to be taken by the treasurer; relative to warning meetings of said
borough, and of said warden and burgesses, and the times and places
when and where they shall be holden; relative to the mode of taxation,
as to taxes to be levied in said borough; relative to the penalties
to be incurred, by those, who being chosen to any office, shall (not
being excused by said borough) refuse to serve; relative to a watch;
relative to the burial of the dead; relative to public lights and
lamps; relative to restraining horses, cattle, swine, sheep and geese,
from going at large within the limits of said borough; relative to
their improvement and preservation of the shell and scale fisheries,
and taking fish within said limits, provided that in relation to said
fisheries, said Town shall have given their assent thereto; relative
to improvements made in deepening the water in said harbour; relative
to schools which may be established by said borough; relative to trespasses
committed within the limits of said borough; relative to public landings;
relative to firing of guns; relative to noise and disturbance in the
night season; and to inflict penalties for the breach of such by-laws;
Provided however, that such penalties shall, in no case, exceed the
sum of fifteen dollars for one offence; and said penalties shall be
payable to the treasurer, and such other persons as the by-laws shall
direct, and be recoverable by the persons to whom forfeited, by action
of debt, to be brought before a justice of the peace, or other court
within said borough, proper to try the same. Provided however, that
no by-law of said borough shall be repugnant to the laws of this State;
and provided also, that all the by-laws made by said warden and burgesses
shall be approved by said borough, in legal meeting assembled, and
after being so approved, shall be published at least three weeks successively,
in some public newspaper published in said borough, and if no newspaper
be published in said borough, then in a newspaper published nearest
thereto, before the same shall be of any force or validity; and all
the by-laws of said borough, shall, at any time within eight months
after they are made and published as aforesaid, be liable to be repealed
by the Superior Court, holden in said county of Middlesex, if by said
Superior Court, on hearing, adjudged to be unreasonable and unjust. | 
SEC. 11. The warden and burgesses of said borough,
shall have and possess full power and authority, to make all such
by-laws as shall be necessary, to prevent any building or buildings,
already erected, or which may be hereafter erected within said limits,
from being used or occupied as a baker's shop, tallow chandler's shop,
or blacksmith's shop, or for purposes which equally, or in like manner,
in the opinion of said warden and burgesses, shall immediately expose
said borough to injury by fire, without licence first obtained from
said warden and burgesses. Provided, that said by-laws be approved
and published in manner required, to render valid other by-laws of
said borough; and in like manner may be repealed by the Superior Court. | 
SEC. 12. Said borough shall have full power
and authority, to purchase or erect a building or buildings, for the
establishment of a school within said limits; to establish a fund,
or devise other means for the support of the same; to prescribe the
different branches which may be taught therein; and to make all necessary
regulations, and to exercise such powers, as the interests of said
school may require. | 
SEC. 13. And all grants or leases of real estate,
belonging to said borough, signed by the warden, and sealed with the
borough seal, and approved by said borough in legal meeting assembled,
shall be good and effectual in law, to convey the estate intended
to be conveyed by such grant or lease; Provided, the same is recorded
in the records of the Town where the lands granted or leased lie—And
that said borough shall have power to appoint inspectors of every
kind of produce of the United States, brought to said borough for
sale or exportation—And the vote or choice of the major part
of the freemen present at any legal meeting, shall be considered as
the vote or choice of said borough. | 
SEC. 14. The freemen of said borough, in legal
meeting assembled, may appoint all proper officers, which may be necessary
to carry into effect the by-laws relative to the regulation of said
harbour, and of the shell and scale fisheries within said limits,
may appoint haywards and all other officers and inspectors not enumerated
in this act, which shall be necessary to carry the by-laws of said
borough into execution. | 
SEC. 15. The warden and burgesses have power
to form, constitute, and regulate a fire company, and to enlist a
sufficient number of firemen to fill the same, and in case a sufficient
number cannot be enlisted, to appoint a sufficient number to fill
up the same, and make all suitable and necessary by-laws for regulating
said fire company. | 
SEC. 16. The warden and burgesses, bailiff and
Clerk of said borough, and inspectors of produce of the United States,
brought to said borough, for sale or exportation, shall be sworn to
a faithful discharge of their duty, and the form of oath to be taken
by the warden and burgesses, shall be as follows. You, A.B. being
elected warden (or burgess, as the case may be) of the borough of
Killingworth, do swear that you will faithfully and uprightly discharge
the duties of that office, so long as you shall hold the same; so
help you God: and that the form of oath to be taken by the Clerk shall
be as follows, viz. You, A.B. being Clerk of the borough of Killingworth,
do swear that you will truly and faithfully attend and execute the
office of Clerk, according to your best skill, and make true entries
and records of all the votes and proceedings of said borough, and
such other matters as by law, or by the by-laws of said borough, are
to be recorded in your office; and that you will deliver true copies
of the records in your hands, when they shall be required of you,
taking your lawful fees; so help you God. And that the form of oath
to be taken by the bailiff, shall be the same, mutatis mutandis, as
is prescribed by law to be taken by constables; and that form of oath
to be taken by inspectors of produce of the United States, brought
to said borough for sale or exportation, haywards and other subordinate
officers, shall be the same as is by law prescribed for surveyors
of highways, leather-sealers, &c. mutatis mutandis; which oath
may be administered by any justice of the peace, for the county of
Middlesex, and in the absence of any such justice of the peace, in
any of the meetings at which said warden, burgesses, &c. may be
chosen, such oaths may be administered by the Clerk, and the Clerk
shall make a true record of the administering of such oath, and by
whom, before the person to whom the same has been administered, shall
be able to execute the office to which he was chosen. | 
SEC. 17. Whenever the warden or other officer
of said borough shall resign, or be removed by death, or otherwise,
another shall be chosen in his place, until the annual meeting in
the month of September, then next, unless another shall be sooner
chosen and sworn in his stead; and that the warden of said borough,
or in his absence, the senior burgess present at any meeting of said
borough, or of said warden and burgesses, shall, ex officio, be moderator
thereof; and the meeting of said borough may from time to time be
adjourned, by a major vote of the freemen present; and that said borough
may, at any time, hold special borough meetings, whenever, in the
opinion of the warden and burgesses, or a majority of them, the circumstances
of the borough require it. | 
SEC. 18. The first meeting of said borough shall
be holden at the academy in said Killingworth, on the first Monday
of July next, at one o'clock in the afternoon of said day, for the
choice of a warden, burgesses, Clerk, treasurer and bailiff, and to
transact such other business as shall be necessary, which may be from
time to time adjourned; and a copy of this paragraph of this act,
certified under the hand of the Secretary of this State, and set upon
the public sign-post in said Killingworth, at least eight days before
the said first Monday of July, shall be a legal warning of the freemen
of said borough to attend said first meeting; and the officers chosen
at such meeting, shall continue in office until the expiration of
the annual meeting in the month of September, unless others are sooner
chosen and qualified in their stead; and that said borough shall,
at such meetings, first choose a Clerk of said borough, who shall
be immediately sworn, and shall forthwith make a record of his being
chosen and sworn, and the record thus by him made, in such cases,
shall be good and effectual in law; and such record may be made by
clerks thereafter, and shall be good, any thing in this act notwithstanding.
Said borough shall thereupon proceed to choose a warden and other
officers of said borough, mentioned in this paragraph of this act.
And that Austin Olcott, Esquire, justice of the peace for Middlesex
county, shall have, as to the first election of the warden, burgesses,
Clerk, treasurer and bailiff of said borough, the same powers, and
proceed in the same manner, as the wardens, burgesses and bailiff
of said borough are by this act to have and proceed in, at the future
elections in said borough, and shall be moderator of said meeting
till a warden be chosen and qualified according to this act; and said
borough shall, at said first meeting, appoint a time and place for
holding the first meeting of said warden and burgesses, which meeting
shall have power to adjourn from time to time: Always provided, that
any thing in this act, notwithstanding, the inhabitants living within
the limits of said borough, shall, to all intents and purposes, be
and remain a part of the Town of Killingworth, entitled to all its
privileges, and subject to all its burdens, as if this act had not
been passed. Provided nevertheless, that if this act, or any provision
therein contained, shall be found inconvenient, or in any respect
inadequate, the same may be repealed, altered or revoked, by the General
Assembly. | 
SEC. 19. All charges and expenses that shall
have been, or may be incurred, in consequence of this act of incorporation,
shall be borne and defrayed by said borough, by taxes on the polls
and rateable estate of said borough, within said limits. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.4295284343738532
[Substitute for House Bill No. 415.] | 
[418] | 
AN ACT CONCERNING CERTIFICATION OF THE RECORDS
OF KILLINGWORTH BY THE TOWN CLERK OF CLINTON. | 
Be it Enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
in General Assembly Convened: | 
The Town Clerk of the Town of Clinton, from
photostatic copies on file in his offices, is authorized to certify
copies of the public records of the Town of Killingworth recorded
prior to June 1, 1838, which certified copies shall have the same
legal effect as copies certified from the original records of the
Town Clerk of the Town of Killingworth. | 
Approved, June 18, 1929. | 
General Assembly — 1929. | 
Special Laws — Vol. XX, p. 1018. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.4246165416426564
[House Bill No. 3664.] | 
[97.] | 
AN ACT AUTHORIZING THE TOWN OF CLINTON TO ADOPT
PENSION PLANS AND VALIDATING EXISTING PLANS. | 
The Town of Clinton, acting by vote of its board
of selectmen, may, from time to time, establish, amend and modify
pension and retirement systems for any or all employees of the Town,
provided that such action shall not impair, abridge or abrogate any
rights vested in any such employee under any pension or retirement
system established prior to the effective date of this act, without
the consent of such employee. The action of the board of education
of the Town of Clinton in establishing, on November 10, 1965, the
"Pension Plan—Custodial Staff of Clinton School System," and
the action of the Clinton Town meeting of December 13, 1966 in establishing
"The Clinton Police Pension Plan" and the retirement pension for the
chief of police, are hereby authorized, ratified and validated. | 
Approved May 26, 1967. | 
General Assembly — January, 1967. | 
Special Acts, 1967 — pp. 100-101. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.4217248273208973
BOUNDARIES — KILLINGWORTH AND SAYBROOK | 
RESOLVE ANNEXING A PART OF KILLINGWORTH TO THE
SECOND SCHOOL DISTRICT, AND THE THIRD SCHOOL SOCIETY, IN SAYBROOK. | 
PASSED, MAY 1834 | 
Resolved That the dividing line between the
eastern school district in Killingworth, and the second school district
of the third school society in Saybrook, be so altered as to include
the dwelling house of Benjamin P. Jones, within the limits of said
second school district, in the third school society of Saybrook, as
follows; beginning at the southerly side of the highway or stage road,
where said dividing line crosses said road: thence running upon the
south side of said highway, to a point parallel with the western end
of the petitioners dwelling house; thence around and by said house
to the southeast corner thereof; and then in a straight line parallel
with the southern side of said house, to said dividing line; and said
Benjamin P. Jones, together with the land and house included within
the above described limits, is hereby set off from the eastern school
district in Killingworth, and the school society to which said eastern
school district belongs, and is annexed to the second school district
in the third school society in Saybrook, and hereafter to be and remain
a part of said society in Saybrook, for all purposes whatever. | 
Private Laws — Vol. II, pp. 1092, 1093. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.41874002484178585
BOUNDARIES — GUILFORD AND KILLINGWORTH,
PORTION OF TOWN LINE RELOCATED | 
Upon the Petition of Abraham Pierson & Job
Wright both of Killingworth and the rest of the Inhabitants of said
Killingworth shewing to this Assembly that it would be greatly for
the convenience of the Petitioners and much for the Public good to
make a small alteration in the dividing Line between the Town of Guilford
and Killingworth beginning at the Mouth of Dudleys Creek in Hamonasset
River and running South 50 Degrees 10 minuts East to West Rock so
called upon the Sound being 216 Rods Praying that said alteration
may be made &c as per Petition on file &c Upon which Petition
this Assembly at their Sessions in October last appointed a Committee
to repair to said Killingworth and view said proposed alterations
examine into the Facts and make Report, which said Committee have
Reported to this Assembly that said alteration will be of Public Advantage
and beneficial to the Petitioners and no disadvantage to the Petitioners
as per Report on file &c | 
Resolved by this Assembly that a Streight Line
from the Mouth of Dudleys Creek in said Haomonasset River running
South 50 Degrees 10' East to West Rock so called upon the Sound being
216 Rods be and the same is hereby established to be the dividing
Line between the said Towns of Guilford & Killingworth And that
the Lands lying East of said Line be and the same are hereby Annexed
to the said Town of Killingworth, exclusive of the Power and Authority
in Town Meetings to make Rules and Ordinances for regulating the Fisheries
of Clams & Oysters which Power and Authority is hereby reserved
to the Town of Guilford in the same manner as though this alteration
in the Line between said Towns had not been made. | 
General Assembly — December 1790. | 
Public Records, State of Connecticut, From May
1789 through October 1792 — Vol. VII, p. 243. | 
Private Laws — Vol. II, p. 1150. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.4131829931490073
BOROUGH OF KILLINGWORTH — NAME CHANGED
TO CLINTON | 
[BOROUGH OF CLINTON.] | 
AN ACT IN ADDITION TO THE ACT, ENTITLED "AN
ACT INCORPORATING THE BOROUGH OF KILLINGWORTH." | 
PASSED 1841. | 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives,
in General Assembly convened, SEC. 1. That Austin Olcott, Esq., of
said borough of Killingworth, and in case of his absence for the space
of thirty days after the passing of this act, George Carter, Esq.,
be, and he is hereby authorized and empowered to call a meeting of
the freemen of the said borough to be holden for the choice of officers,
at the academy in said borough, at such times in the month of May,
A. D. 1841, as he or they may direct. A notification signed by said
Olcott, or in case of his absence as aforesaid, by said Carter, specifying
the object, time and place of said meeting, and set upon the public
sign-post in said borough, at least five days before the day appointed
for said meeting, shall be sufficient notice. The said Austin Olcott,
and in his absence the said George Carter, shall preside at the meeting
aforesaid, until a warden shall be chosen and sworn. The freemen of
said borough when convened as aforesaid, shall have power to appoint
all such officers as they are authorized by law to appoint at their
annual meeting, and the officers so appointed shall continue in office
until the next annual meeting of said corporation, and until others
are chosen and qualified in their stead. | 
And be it further enacted, SEC. 2. That the
name of the said borough of Killingworth be changed to that of Clinton,
and that this act take effect from the time of its passage. | 
Private Laws — Vol. III, p. 227. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.4117480368514417
BOUNDARIES — CLINTON AND SAYBROOK | 
Relating to House Petition No. 21; The Same
Being the Petition of Benjamin P. Jones for a Resolution Annexing
Him to the School Society or Town of Clinton. | 
Resolved by this Assembly: That the resolution
passed by the general assembly, May session, A. D. 1834 changing and
establishing a dividing line between the eastern school district in
Killingworth and the second school district of the third school society
of Saybrook, be, and the same is hereby, approved. | 
Approved, June 25, 1873. | 
General Assembly — 1873. | 
Special Laws — Vol. VII, p. 505. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.41063440606346974
BOROUGH OF KILLINGWORTH — FIRE COMPANY | 
AN ACT IN ADDITION TO AN ACT, INCORPORATING
THE BOROUGHS OF 
BRIDGEPORT, STONINGTON, GUILFORD, KILLINGWORTH
AND ESSEX | 
PASSED, MAY 1822. | 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
in General Assembly convened, That the warden and burgesses, in each
borough, shall have power to form, continue, and regulate one fire
company, in addition to the one already authorized in the fourteenth
section of the aforesaid act, with all the powers granted to the said
fourteenth section. | 
Private Laws — Vol. I, p. 234. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.40986505138325324
PLANTATION RESERVED | 
At a Session of the Genll Assembly Holden at Hartford, the 19th of August, 1663. | 
The Comitte appoynted to view Hommonoscit, returned
a writing under their hands, dated June 3, 1663, wherein they expresst
that according to their best judgment it will make a comfortable plantation
for the entertainment of thirty families to subsist comfortably. The
Comitte were Wm. Wadsworth, Samll Smith,
James Auery. | 
John Clow Junr presented
a Petition to the Court for the planting of Homonoscitt, and engaged
to pay 10s. to the Treasury for it, according to order. | 
This Court orders, that the land at Homonoscit
be reserued for a plantation. | 
This Court orders that the planting of Homonoscit
be reffered to October Court. | 
Colonial Records of Connecticut — 1636-1665,
pp. 408, 409. | 


dl      disposition list
https://ecode360.com/12861768
0.4069889458448489
Effective 12-4-2009 | Town Charter amendment | Superseded 12-6-2012 | 
10-13-2010 | Sewage disposal systems | Ch. 438 | 
12-1-2010 | Volunteer Fire Department Tax Exemption Program amendment | Superseded 7-18-2012 | 
1-11-2012 | Design Review Board | Ch. 24, Art. XI | 
7-18-2012 | Volunteer Fire Department Tax Exemption Program | Superseded 4-3-2013 | 
Effective 12-6-2012 | Town Charter | Town Charter | 
3-22-2014 | Citations for violations of zoning regulations | Ch. 265 | 
4-3-2013 | Volunteer Fire Department Tax Exemption Program | Superseded 8-17-2014 | 
4-3-2013 | Tax relief for elderly and disabled persons | Ch. 465, Art. VIII | 
5-11-2014 | Tax deferral for elderly and disabled persons | Ch. 465, Art. X | 
6-21-2014 | Fees: land use applications amendment | Ch. 296, Art. II | 
8-17-2014 | Volunteer Fire Department Tax Exemption Program | Superseded 7-1-2015 | 
4-15-2015 | Retirement: Other Post-Employment Benefits Trust | Ch. 140, Art. I | 
7-1-2015 | Volunteer Fire Department Tax Exemption Program | Ch. 465, Art. VII | 
8-31-2016 | Length of Service Awards Program | Ch. 110 | 
5-17-2018 | Oil and Gas Exploration | Ch. 396 | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.3865898782513789
MILEAGE OF CLINTON. | 
PASSED 1840. | 
Resolved by this Assembly, That the mileage
from the Town of Clinton in Middlesex county, be, to New Haven, twenty-five
miles. | 
General Assembly — Private Laws —
Vol. IV, p. 1232. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.3843975710444984
IN ADDITION—PASSED, MAY 1833. | 
Whereas it has been represented to this Assembly,
that said borough at the time for holding their last annual meeting,
neglected to choose any officers of said borough, and that in consequence,
no person is legally empowered to warn a meeting of the freemen of
said borough, agreeable to the provisions of their by-laws—therefore, | 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
in General Assembly convened, That Austin Olcott, of said borough
of Killingworth, be, and he is hereby authorized and empowered to
call a meeting of the freemen of said borough, to be holden for the
choice of officers, at the academy in said borough, at such time in
the months of May or June, A.D. 1833, as he may direct. A notification
signed by him, specifying the object and time and place of said meeting,
and set upon the public sign-post in said borough, at least five days
before the day appointed for said meeting, shall be sufficient notice.
The said Austin Olcott shall preside at said meeting, until a warden
shall be chosen and sworn. The freemen of said borough, when convened
as aforesaid, shall have power to appoint all such officers as they
are authorized by law to appoint at their annual meeting; and the
officers, so appointed, shall continue in office until the expiration
of the month of September next, unless others shall be sooner chosen
and qualified in their stead. | 
SEC. 2. And be it further enacted, that this
act shall take effect from the time of its passage. | 
Private Laws — Vol. I, pp. 197-203. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.381695023461167
BOUNDARIES — GUILFORD AND KILLINGWORTH | 
At a General Assembly of the Governor and Company
of his Majesty's English Colony of Connecticut in New England in America
holden at Hartford in said Colony on the second Thursday of May (being
the tenth day of said month,) and continued by several adjournments
until the seventh day of June next following, annoque Domini 1759. | 
Whereas the river called and known by the name
of Hommosset River is the bounds or dividing line between the towns
of Guilford and Killingworth, and that whereas said river in the great
swamp called and known by the name of the World's End Swamp divides
into many branches or rivulets and the true dividing branch never
was agreed upon and settled by said towns through said swamp, and
it being represented to this Assembly that the said swamp in those
months by law prefixed for perambulating the line or renewing bounds
between towns is impassable, it being frequently overflowed with water:
Therefore it is resolved by this Assembly, that the towns of Guilford
and Killingworth have liberty and liberty is hereby granted them to
fix and renew their bounds through said swamp in any month or season
in the year, and that the same shall be as valid as tho' the same
should be done in the months of March and April; any law, usage or
custom to the contrary notwithstanding. | 
Colonial Records of Connecticut — 1757-1762,
Vol. XI, p. 293. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.3814774024434796
ELECTIONS | 
RESOLVED: That an Act of the Legislature of
the State of Connecticut entitled an "Act Providing for Biennial Elections
in the Town of Clinton" be approved. | 
Special Town Meeting — June 22, 1939. | 
TM — v. 4, p. 238. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.38007899237183973
PLANTATION AUTHORIZED | 
At a Session of the Generall Assembly at Hartford,
[October] the 8th, 1663. | 
This Court doth judge that Seabrook hath no
right to Hommonoscitt. | 
This Court doth declare that the former act
about Homonoscitts not being a plantation is hereby reuoaked; and
the former order, that it should be a plantation is to stand. | 
The Court doth appoynt S. Willys, Mr. Woollcott,
and Wm. Wadsworth as a Commity for the ordering of the plantation
at Homonoscitt. | 
Colonial Records of Connecticut — 1636-1665,
p. 414. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.3789283254515927
BOUNDARIES — HOMONOSCITT AND SAYBROOK | 
At a Session of the Genll Assembly at Hartford, March 10th, 1663. | 
To pruent future
inconueniences that may arise between Saybrook and Homonoscitt plantations,
and for a full issue of the case, this Court orders that the bounds
between ye said plantations shall be where the common passage ouer
Manunketesek Riuer is, and so to run north into the Country and south
into the sea. The former uote concerning the bounds of these plantations
is retracted. Mr. Rossiter, Mathew Griswold and Joh: West are to lay
out the bowndes according to order of Court. | 
Colonial Records of Connecticut — 1636-1665,
pp. 418, 419. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.3787128919933893
At a General Assembly holden at Hartford, in
his Majesty's English Colony of Connecticutt in New England in America,
on Thursday the 8th day of May, anno regni Regis Georgii 2di, Magnae
Britanniae, &c., 8vo, Annoque Domini 1735. | 
Be it enacted by the Governour, Council and
Representatives, in General Court assembled, and by the authority
of the same, That the said Town of Killingsworth, by a line to begin
at Saybrook bounds, at a place commonly called the southeast corner
of Pelatiah Ward's farm, being the proper southeast corner of Capt.
Peter Ward's ninth division land, and to extend from thence west-south-west
five degrees south to Guilford line, shall and is hereby divided into
two distinct ecclesiastical societies; and that the part of said Town
lying southerly of said line is hereby declared to be a distinct ecclesiastical
society, with all powers and privileges proper for such a society;
and that such part of said Town that lyeth northerly of the abovesaid
line shall be and is hereby, by the authority aforesaid, made into
one distinct ecclesiastical society, with all powers and privileges
proper for such a society; always provided that all lands in said
Town (if the owner liveth in the Town aforesaid) shall be taxed for
the defraying parish charges only where the owner or owners of such
lands do live. | 
Colonial Records of Connecticut — 1726-1735,
Vol. VII, p. 552. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.37487772973508127
PLANTATION — COMMITTEE TO LAY OUT | 
At a Generall Assembly of Election, Held at
Hartford, May 14, 1663. | 
This Court doth impower Mr. Toppin, Mr. Gould,
Mr. Shermon and Mr. Howell as a Comittee to hear and consider the
busines respecting Hamonossitt, and to make reporte of their considerations
to ye Court; and likewise the case of the horss in Nicholas Clarkes
hand is left according to the premises to the consideration of the
sayd Comittee. | 
This Court doth determine that the land at Homonoscitt
doth not of right belong unto the Town of Seabroke. | 
This Court appoynted Wm. Wadsworth, Ens. Auery,
Lnt. Smith, as a Committe to view the lands at Homonoscitt, and if
they judg it nott fitt for a plantation, and will not be uery prejediciall
to Saybrook, then they are to lay it out to Mr. Math; Allyn, Capt.
Tallcott, John Allyn, Mr. Willis, and according to the graunt of the
Court; but if it be prejediciall to Saybrook, they are to lay out
what they judge right to the Towne of Saybrook and the rest to Mr.
Math: Allyn, Capt. Tallcott, John Allyn, Mr. Willys, Mr. Joseph Haynes
or Mr. Daniell Clerk, according as the Court shall determine, as farr
as it will go, according to their graunts, ye 1st graunt to be layd
out 1st, and so successiuely; and what any two of this Committe agree
to, shall be a finall issue of the case. The time of meeting and attending
this seruice is to be appoynted by Saybrook and the Gent: concerned,
sometime in June next. | 
Colonial Records of Connecticut — 1636-1665,
pp. 400, 401, 404. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.3742278771353893
BOUNDARIES — TOWN OF KILLINGWORTH | 
Att a Genll Assembly
holden att Newhaven October the 14th, 1703,
and continued by Adjournment to the end of the 22d day of the same month: | 
This Assembly doth grant to Lieut Henrie Crane, William Stephens, Samll Buell and John Kelsie, and their associates, the present proprietors
and inhabitants of Killinworth, their heirs, successors and assignes
forever, according to their and each of their respective and just
rights therein, all that tract of land lying between the tracts of
land belonging to the inhabitants of the townes of Gilford and Saybrook,
butted and bounded as followeth, viz. on the south or southward by
the sea; on the east or eastward running north from the sea to a white
oak staddle on the banke with the top cutt off, and a heap of stones
about it; thence runing a north line to a white oak tree standing
in the line near Ma-na-qua-tesott River at the old riding place, marked
with K.B. on the west, and with S.B. on the east; thence running a
north line to Haddum bounds where is a heap of flat stones cast up,
and near Haddum bounds is marked two chestnutt trees growing on one
root close by a great rock which is upright like a wall on the south
side; on the north running from said heap of stones in Haddum line
due west to an oak tree marked with H.B. on the north side and K.B.
on the south side, with a heap of stones laid about it; from thence
a due west line to the westermost branch of Hamanassett River; on
the west by the midle of the said Hamanassett River, as the river
runnes till it fall into the sea; together with all and singular the
rights, profitts, priviledges, members and appurtenances to the said
tract of land or any part thereof belonging or in any wise apperteining,
and doe order that the parties above-named shall have a pattent for
confirmation of the premises to them, their heirs, successors and
assignes as above-mentioned. The pattent to be signed by the Honbl
the Governr, and by the Secretary, in the name and behalfe of the
Governr and Company of this Colony. | 
Colonial Records of Connecticut — 1689-1706,
p. 449. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.3717163508202741
MILEAGE OF CLINTON. | 
PASSED 1839. | 
Resolved by this Assembly, That the mileage
from Clinton in Middlesex County, [to Hartford,] shall be thirty-eight
miles. | 
General Assembly — Private Laws —
Vol. IV, p. 1231. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.36642075044361366
HAMMOCK RIVER BRIDGE | 
At a Genrll Court
Held at Hartford, Octobr 8th, 1696; | 
At this Court John Kelcey, Will Barber, Will
Stephens, Robert Lane, and Peter Farnam, moved this Court in behalfe
of some proprietrs in the Town of Killinworth
that a sluice and cart bridge might be built upon the river called
the Hamock River, at the charge of such persons as might be benefitted
thereby. This Court having considered that notice hath not been given
to all persons concerned, doe referre the matter to further consideration
at the Genll Court in May next, due notice
thereof being given in the mean time to all persons concerned. | 
Colonial Records of Connecticut — 1689-1706,
p. 188. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.3638896648632708
BOUNDARIES — KENILWORTH | 
A General Assembly Held at Hartford, October
the 8th, 1668. | 
This Court orders that if Saybrooke & Haddum
Plantations doe agree that theire bownds shall be setled according
to the minde of this Court recommended to them, that then there shall
runn a west line from Saybrooke bownds, which lyne shall be the north
bownds of Kennilworth and the sowth bownds of Haddum, soe farr as
the grant of Haddum bownds goeth; and from thence the bownds of Kenillworth
shall runn of the same till it meet with Guilford bownds. | 
Colonial Records of Connecticut — 1665-1677,
p. 97. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.36240037391877233
BOUNDARIES — KENILWORTH AND SAYBROOK | 
At a Court of Election Held at Hartford, May
14th, 1674. | 
This Court appoynts Ens: Nath: White and Deacon
John Hall to lay out the line between Saybrooke and Kenilworth, and
allso to lay out the North line of Kenilworth from Saybrook lyne on
the east till it meets with Guilford lyne on the west, according to
their grant. | 
Colonial Records of Connecticut — 1665-1677,
p. 225. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.3620334750517932
At a Court of Election Held at Hartford, May
13th, 1697: | 
Mr Samll Buell of Killinsworth in behalf of severall of the
inhabitants of the said Town prosecuted a petition exhibited in October
last by Jno Kelsie, Will Barber, Will Stephens, Robert Lane, Peter
Farnam, in behalfe of some of the proprietors of the said Town that
this Court would order that a sluice and cart bridge should be built
upon the river called the Hamock River, at the charge of such persons
that might recieve benefit thereby being proprietors of lands in the
said Town, in proportion to the benefitt that might accrue to them
by the bettering their lands thereby. This Court considering that
the worke may be of comon benefitt to those whose lands are upon the
said river, doe grant their petition, and doe order that the worke
be carried on by the consent of the majr part of the said proprietors, and that all the persons that may
according to the judgment of intelligent men in such workes be benefitted
thereby, shall bear an equall proportion of the charge, according
to their respective quantities of land that may be advantaged and
bettered, to be determined and stated by the select men of the said
Town of Killinsworth or the majr part of
them in case the parties concerned canot aggree. | 
Colonial Records of Connecticut — 1689-1706,
p. 211. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.35780458284975303
ECCLESIASTICAL SOCIETIES | 
At a General Assembly holden at Hartford, in
his Majesty's English Colony of Connecticutt, in New England, in America,
on the ninth day of May, in the 7th year of the reign of our sovereign
lord George the 2d, of Great Britain, &c., King, &c., Annoque
Dom. 1734. | 
Upon the memorial of the inhabitants of the
northern part of the Town of Killingsworth, praying that a committee
may be appointed to view the circumstances of said inhabitants, and
if they think them to be of ability to be a distinct society; that
then the said committee would affix a line for the southern bounds
of the same, and return their doings to this Assembly as soon as the
work shall be finished: Which prayer this Assembly grants, and do
appoint Messrs. James Wadsworth and Samuel Lynde, Esqrs, and Capt. Samuel Hill, a committee to view the
circumstances of said memorialists, and if they think them of ability
to be a distinct society to affix a line for the southern bounds of
said society, and make return of their doings to this Assembly as
soon as said work shall be finished. | 
Colonial Records of Connecticut — 1726-1735,
Vol. VII, p. 489. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.3550066871941471
At a Court of Election Held at Hartford, May
13, 1675. | 
This Court recommends it to the inhabitants
of Kenilworth to accomadate Saybrooke in the bownds between them,
soe that Saybrooke may run from the riuer towards the west, three
miles at their north bownds, and from thence to runn a straight line
till they meet with the line where the wadeing place is at Manuncketesseck. | 
Colonial Records of Connecticut — 1665-1677,
p. 256. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.35267846147795456
TOWN NAMED | 
At a Court of Election Held at Hartford, May
9th, 1667. | 
This Court orders that ye towne of Homonoscit shal for ye future
be named Kenilworth, & for yr brand
of horses they shal have ye letter V on
ye near buttock. | 
Colonial Records of Connecticut — 1665-1677,
p. 58. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.34929895223652285
CHURCH — GATHERING OF | 
A Generall Assembly Held at Hartford, October
10th, 1667. | 
This Court, upon the petition of the inhabitants
of Kenilworth, doe hereby declare and give them theire approbation
and encouragemt to gather themselves into church order, according
to the order of the gospell. | 
Colonial Records of Connecticut — 1665-1677,
p. 71. | 


a         special acts
https://ecode360.com/12730666
0.32367063783421923
SPECIAL ACTS | 
- Beach Associations - | 


dl      disposition list
https://ecode360.com/12861768
0.1544357309924737
9-4-2018 | Town Charter Amendment | Ch. C | 10 | 
6-17-2020 | Historic Preservation Amendment | Ch. 320 | 11 | 
6-17-2020 | Appointments: Town Historian | Ch. 12, Art. I | 11 | 


